---
layout: post
title: 'Games and Actors (UPDATE)'
date: 2005-06-09 13:48
comments: true
categories : []
---  

So I logon this morning and read over at <a href="http://www.wired.com/news/business/0,1367,67803,00.html?tw=rss.TOP">Wired</a> that there's been a settlement between SAG Actors and video game developers.

   <blockquote> SAN FRANCISCO -- Hollywood actors unions have reached a contract deal with video game publishers, accepting higher pay instead of the profit-sharing they had demanded, the unions said Wednesday, removing the threat of a strike.

    The three-and-a-half-year agreements with game companies came as the Screen Actors Guild and American Federation of Television and Radio Artists were preparing to announce the results of a strike vote.

    Unions had sought to win profit-sharing, known as residual payments, from game publishers.</blockquote>

While I'm happy that the Actors are getting a pay raise I still don't agree that they should get a residual payment from every game sold. I do however love the quote from Laura Ingalls.

<blockquote>"We will spend the next three-and-a-half years devoting resources to further organize this industry, and return to the bargaining table with renewed strength and vigor to establish a fair participation in the enormous profits generated by video games," said Melissa Gilbert, SAG president.</blockquote>

I mean for gods sakes woman...this isn't Little House on the Prairie. At least <a href="http://www.wilwheaton.net/mt/archives/003293.php#003293">Wil Wheaton</a> has the right idea when he says

<blockquote><i>"Developers: We're on the same side, guys, and by playing into "Actors vs. Developers," you've let the game producers divide and conquer us. If you're getting screwed, why not organize a union? I seriously doubt they could replace programmers, designers, and developers with Becky and Don from ad sales. You've got to believe in yourself, and not undervalue the importance of your contribution to the final product. We should be talking about the common goals we have, and how we can reach then, rather than arguing about who is more important."</i></blockquote>

